Colour Me Happy
by
Aloysius


The station was busy.  Jeff looked at his watch and sighed.  It was always busy at this time of day.  He looked out over the sea of people who would be attempting to cram themselves onto the next train with him, at a time in the morning when he would really rather still have been in bed.  As the train pulled in to the platform, the usual crush of commuters gathered at each set of doors.  Frustrated and irritable, Jeff jostled for position and, as the doors slid open, he shoved a young woman out of his way in order to ensure his place on the train.  The doors closed again behind him and the vehicle jolted into motion, but Jeff was no longer thinking about his journey.  He was staring down in horror at the crystal embedded in the back of his hand, which had just changed from green to red.   

Oblivious to the equally horrified looks of his fellow passengers, Jeff stumbled off the train at the next station and stood frozen on the platform.  Getting to work was now the least of his worries.  The red light of the crystal taunted him with the knowledge that he had just damned his immortal soul.

* * *

The crystals had turned up in general circulation about half a century before.  Certainly, Jeff had had one all his life, as had most of the people he knew.  They were the result of an unexpected breakthrough in the study of Kirlian auras, a kind of glow given off by all living creatures.  Scientists had been examining the changes in the auras throughout various creatures' lives, focusing particularly on the differences wrought by the creatures' deaths.  Jeff wasn't clear on the details – he'd never been much good at science – but he knew what it meant for people in general.  The research had determined that souls really existed and went to one of two places after the death of the mortal body – one good, one bad. 

The scientists had subsequently figured out a way to measure the state of a person's Kirlian aura, and thus determine where the soul would be bound if the body died at any particular moment.  Hence the crystals – green for good and red for bad.

Of course, the whole world had gone mad when the news broke.  The ramifications of the aura research stretched to every aspect of human existence.  It prove the presence of some kind of supreme being who had judgemental control over the fate of every human soul.  However, followers of every known religion exhibited both green and red crystals, which disproved any theory that you had to worship a particular god in order to gain your reward in the afterlife.  Essentially, it was the end of organised religion, though there were a great many who resisted giving up the beliefs they had relied upon for so long.

Also, rather inevitably, a new religion had sprung up around what little was known about the being in question.  The fact that no firm conclusions could be reached about the moral or ethical system used by the judging entity didn't seem to bother its followers.  In fact, one of their main rules was that they didn't wear crystals.  They preferred to leave the decision of their guilt or innocence entirely up to their deity, claiming they had no right to actively interfere with the process.

The other main group of non-crystal-wearing people actually went to the other extreme, choosing not to be subject to the will of an overseeing force.  They often wore garments or displayed bumper stickers with the slogan “Judgement Free”, and generally considered themselves superior to the 'crystal slaves', as they referred to those who bore them.

Jeff was one of the vast majority, taken by his parents to an Implantation Centre at the age of one to have a crystal embedded in the back of his hand.  It wasn't compulsory, but the number of people who chose not to have their children implanted was few, reduced further by those who subsequently opted to receive a crystal as an adult.

Jeff had never considered having his crystal removed.  In fact, he'd never even given the thing much thought – until today.  He wasn't a bad guy.  Sure, he laughed at offensive jokes, shouted at tele-marketers when they called him at home, threw water at the next door neighbour's cat if it got into his garden – but he'd never done anything actually evil.

That was the biggest problem with the crystals.  There was no way to tell where you were on the scale or how each individual action affected it.  The crystal was either green or it was red; there were no shades in between.  The worst thing was that motivation seemed to be taken into account by whoever was keeping the tally.  All the research said that good deeds undertaken with the intention of turning the crystal back to green after it had turned red had no effect.

Initially, when the crystals had come out, crime rates had plummetted as everyone tried to ensure that their crystal stayed green.  They had gradually risen again, though, as human nature reasserted itself, and some of those whose crystals had turned red gave up trying to switch them back and just decided to do whatever they wanted, since they were damned anyway.  There was even a sub-culture of red crystal bearers who proclaimed their status proudly, wearing t-shirts with slogans like “Judged and found wanting” or “Green doesn't go with this outfit”.

* * *

Jeff was not prepared to give in to the judgement staring him in the face.  He couldn't believe that his mistakes and indiscretions had really amounted to enough sin to condemn his soul to eternal torment.  There had to have been some kind of mistake.  Nobody really knew how the crystals worked; perhaps his had malfunctioned in some way.  That had to be it; something had gone wrong with it and he'd have to go and get it fixed.

Now that a reasonable explanation and easy solution had presented themselves, Jeff was galvanised into action.  He ran from the station platform to find the correct trainline to take him out of the city, oblivious to the fact that he shoved several more people out of his path on the way.

The Implantation Centre was on an industrial estate on the outskirts of town.  Jeff was not familiar with the area, having had no need to go there since his own implantation at the age of one.  He was surprised to discover that the entire site was surrounded by a twenty-foot high fence, and the only entrance sported a formidable security checkpoint.

He strode up and presented himself to the bored-looking guard.

The man barely glanced at him before saying dismissively, “Implantations are daily between 2pm and 3pm.”

“I'm not here for an implantation,” Jeff replied.  “I need to see someone about my crystal.  It's malfunctioning – look!”

He thrust his hand, with the crystal still sporting its baleful red glow, into the guard's face.  The guard didn't look any more interested.

“Only went red today, right?” he guessed.  At Jeff's nod, he continued, “Go buy your mother some flowers or something.  You'll be green again by bedtime.”

A voice deep in the back of Jeff's mind told him it wasn't nearly that simple.  How could you become a good person without doing it deliberately?  Was there really such a thing as a selfless act?

However, he still wasn't prepared to accept that the crystal's judgement was accurate.

“There's been a mistake!” he protested.  “I'm not a bad guy!”

The guard sighed.  “I get ten like you here every day,” he said wearily.  “Get lost, mate.  You're wasting your time.”

As Jeff turned away, to head dejectedly back towards the station, he noticed that the guard was wearing gloves.  He thought about all the scientists, separated from him by more than just walls of glass and steel.  He wondered what colour their crystals were.

THE END


