Other
by
Aloysius

I don't feel like myself today, so pretending to be someone else will take even more effort than usual, as non-consequential as that may sound.  I need sustenance, but leaving the hotel to seek it out just seems too difficult, involving as it would a certain level of disguise and stealth.  But why step outside when I can just as easily achieve my aim without stirring a muscle?

I lie on my bed and close my eyes, opening them again in a different way a moment later and rising from both bed and body to stand over myself.  Everything immediately seems sharper, more distinct, and I feel my senses stretching out in all directions, absorbing unknown sounds and smells.  I watch my physical face spread into a grin.

Gathering darkness about me, I move to the window and look out onto the street below.  It is near night and the people are hurrying home, but the shadows are my minions now and I will not be seen unless I wish it.  I focus on the cobblestones and I am suddenly standing upon them, the stone hard beneath my boots, which are not really there.

I weave between the pedestrians, enjoying the sense of power that comes from being among them and yet not so.  They have no idea of my presence or my intent; they are oblivious to the fact that their fate is in my hands.  I look closely at each one, taking my time over my selection.  I am in no rush, so I might as well wait until the right opportunity presents itself.

There – a woman alone.  The last of those ahead of her turns the corner and moves out of sight.  The street is ours alone, at least for the moment.  I move behind her, brushing so close that I can feel her breathing through the heavy material of her corset, dress and overcoat.  Walking in time with her, I spread my arms wide and pull substance into myself from my surroundings; weight from the cobblestones, warmth from the streetlamps, the sound of my footsteps from the rhythmic thud of hers.  I fashion myself a tailored suit, a flowing coat and a top hat for good measure.

She senses me and glances over her shoulder.  I hiss at her, flashing my teeth and showing her what manner of creature has appeared at her back.  She opens her mouth to scream and I leap between her lips, dissipating my substance as quickly as I had gathered it, sliding deep within her, choking her protest with my will.  I move beneath her skin, stroking and caressing her from inside, a touch more intimate than a lover's.  I work slowly, exploring every inch of her body, flowing with her blood, squeezing past her organs, making her my own.  I swirl inside her brain, circling her frozen consciousness, relishing the terror that emanates from what little is left of her mind.

At last, my conquest of her being is complete and she moves with my will, dragging her footsteps towards the door of the hotel, up the stairs and into my room.  I walk with her up to the bed, where I look down through her eyes upon myself lying there, waiting.

Now the fun really begins.

THE END